In any particular scenario, if you are required to intercept responses as
well, then it can be done through additional configuration. To enable
interception of responses, go to Proxy ➤ Options and check the option
“Intercept responses based on the following rules:


We have already seen in the previous chapter that Burp Suite proxy works
as Man-in-the-Middle. While accessing an application over HTTPS
through Burp Suite, the proxy will generate a TLS certificate signed by its
certificate authority and store it on the client system. To use Burp Suite
most efficiently in case of HTTPS, it is advisable to download and install
the Burp Suite CA Certificate as trusted in the browser.
To import and install the Burp Suite CA certificate, first ensure your
Firefox browser is configured to work along with the Burp Suite proxy.
Then in the address bar, type URL “http://burpsuite” as shown in


P
latform Authentication
There are certain scenarios where the application hosted on the target web
server is protected by authentication. In such a case, we need to configure
the credentials in Burp Suite. In the absence of credentials, Burp Suite won't
be able to access the protected portion of the application and miss out on
potential checks. To configure platform authentication, navigate to “User
Options ➤ Connections ➤ Platform Authentication” as shown in Figure

Upstream Proxy Servers
While testing applications in certain network environments, it may happen
that there’s no direct access to that target application. In such a case, we
might need to connect to a proxy server first and then connect to the
target application. Burp Suite allows easy configuration of upstream proxy
servers. Simply navigate to “User Options ➤ Connections ➤ Upstream
Proxy Servers” as shown in Figure


S
OCKS Proxy
Burp Suite also allows you to make all connection requests through a
SOCKS proxy. To configure Burp Suite with SOCKS Proxy, navigate to
“User Options ➤ Connections ➤ SOCKS Proxy” as shown in Figure 3-15,
and configure the required proxy settings


HOT Keys
To configure
Hotkeys, navigate to User Options ➤ Misc ➤ Hotkeys as shown in Figure

Ctrl + R Send to Repeater
Ctrl + I Send to Intruder
Ctrl + F Forward intercepted proxy
message
Ctrl + Shift + T Switch to Target
Ctrl + Shift + P Switch to Proxy
Ctrl + Shift + I Switch to Intruder
Ctrl + Shift + R Switch to Repeater
Ctrl + Shift + O Switch to Project Options
Ctrl + Shift + U URL Decode
Ctrl + Shift + B Base-64 Decode
Ctrl + B Base-64 Encode

For all such purposes, Burp Suite provides users with a REST API
interface. REST stands for Representational State Transfer and API stands
for Application Programming Interface. REST API is the most popular way
of interconnecting different applications.
To enable the Burp Suite REST API, go to “User Options ➤ Misc” as


To enable the Burp Suite REST API, simply check the option
“Service running.” The REST API will be available by default on
http://127.0.0.1:1337 as shown in Figure

start from CHAPTER 4

start from chapter 5




